docker/experimental/README.md, before:

# Docker Experimental Features

This page contains a list of features in the Docker engine which are
experimental. Experimental features are **not** ready for production. They are
provided for test and evaluation in your sandbox environments.  

The information below describes each feature and the GitHub pull requests and
issues associated with it. If necessary, links are provided to additional
documentation on an issue.  As an active Docker user and community member,
please feel free to provide any feedback on these features you wish.

## Install Docker experimental

Unlike the regular Docker binary, the experimental channels is built and
updated nightly on https://experimental.docker.com. From one day to the
next, new features may appear, while existing experimental features may be
refined or entirely removed.

1. Verify that you have `curl` installed.

        $ which curl

    If `curl` isn't installed, install it after updating your manager:

        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install curl

2. Get the latest Docker package.

        $ curl -sSL https://experimental.docker.com/ | sh

    The system prompts you for your `sudo` password. Then, it downloads and
    installs Docker and its dependencies.

	>**Note**: If your company is behind a filtering proxy, you may find that the
	>`apt-key`
	>command fails for the Docker repo during installation. To work around this,
	>add the key directly using the following:
	>
	>       $ curl -sSL https://experimental.docker.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

3. Verify `docker` is installed correctly.

        $ sudo docker run hello-world

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container.

### Get the Linux binary
To download the latest experimental `docker` binary for Linux,
use the following URLs:

    https://experimental.docker.com/builds/Linux/i386/docker-latest

    https://experimental.docker.com/builds/Linux/x86_64/docker-latest

After downloading the appropriate binary, you can follow the instructions
[here](https://docs.docker.com/installation/binaries/#get-the-docker-binary) to run the `docker` daemon.

> **Note**
>
> 1) You can get the MD5 and SHA256 hashes by appending .md5 and .sha256 to the URLs respectively
>
> 2) You can get the compressed binaries by appending .tgz to the URLs

### Build an experimental binary
You can also build the experimental binary from the standard development environment by adding
`DOCKER_EXPERIMENTAL=1` to the environment where you run `make` to build Docker binaries. For example,
to build a Docker binary with the experimental features enabled:

        $ DOCKER_EXPERIMENTAL=1 make binary

## Current experimental features

 * [External graphdriver plugins](plugins_graphdriver.md)
 * The user namespaces feature has graduated from experimental.

## How to comment on an experimental feature

Each feature's documentation includes a list of proposal pull requests or PRs associated with the feature. If you want to comment on or suggest a change to a feature, please add it to the existing feature PR.  

Issues or problems with a feature? Inquire for help on the `#docker` IRC channel or in on the [Docker Google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/docker-user).

Commit message:

AC-4309: Upload docker 1.12.1
Change-Id: I1ce43f83b8cc22d119874aa258ca0378909d7f1f

docker/experimental/README.md, after:

# Docker Experimental Features

This page contains a list of features in the Docker engine which are
experimental. Experimental features are **not** ready for production. They are
provided for test and evaluation in your sandbox environments.  

The information below describes each feature and the GitHub pull requests and
issues associated with it. If necessary, links are provided to additional
documentation on an issue.  As an active Docker user and community member,
please feel free to provide any feedback on these features you wish.

## Install Docker experimental

Unlike the regular Docker binary, the experimental channels is built and
updated nightly on https://experimental.docker.com. From one day to the
next, new features may appear, while existing experimental features may be
refined or entirely removed.

1. Verify that you have `curl` installed.

        $ which curl

    If `curl` isn't installed, install it after updating your manager:

        $ sudo apt-get update
        $ sudo apt-get install curl

2. Get the latest Docker package.

        $ curl -sSL https://experimental.docker.com/ | sh

    The system prompts you for your `sudo` password. Then, it downloads and
    installs Docker and its dependencies.

	>**Note**: If your company is behind a filtering proxy, you may find that the
	>`apt-key`
	>command fails for the Docker repo during installation. To work around this,
	>add the key directly using the following:
	>
	>       $ curl -sSL https://experimental.docker.com/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

3. Verify `docker` is installed correctly.

        $ sudo docker run hello-world

    This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container.

### Get the Linux binary
To download the latest experimental `docker` binary for Linux,
use the following URLs:

    https://experimental.docker.com/builds/Linux/i386/docker-latest.tgz

    https://experimental.docker.com/builds/Linux/x86_64/docker-latest.tgz

After downloading the appropriate binary, you can follow the instructions
[here](https://docs.docker.com/installation/binaries/#get-the-docker-binary) to run the `docker` daemon.

> **Note**
>
> 1) You can get the MD5 and SHA256 hashes by appending .md5 and .sha256 to the URLs respectively
>
> 2) You can get the compressed binaries by appending .tgz to the URLs

### Build an experimental binary
You can also build the experimental binary from the standard development environment by adding
`DOCKER_EXPERIMENTAL=1` to the environment where you run `make` to build Docker binaries. For example,
to build a Docker binary with the experimental features enabled:

        $ DOCKER_EXPERIMENTAL=1 make binary

## Current experimental features

 * [External graphdriver plugins](plugins_graphdriver.md)
 * [Macvlan and Ipvlan Network Drivers](vlan-networks.md)
 * [Docker Stacks and Distributed Application Bundles](docker-stacks-and-bundles.md)

## How to comment on an experimental feature

Each feature's documentation includes a list of proposal pull requests or PRs associated with the feature. If you want to comment on or suggest a change to a feature, please add it to the existing feature PR.  

Issues or problems with a feature? Inquire for help on the `#docker` IRC channel or in on the [Docker Google group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/docker-user).
